Mithril update 2026-04-15 (#764)
IntersectMBO/cardano-updates: blog/2026-04-15-mithril.md

---
title: Mithril Team Update
slug: 2026-04-15-mithril
authors: jpraynaud
tags: [mithril]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level overview

This week, the Mithril team completed several SNARK-related items: they created the recursive SNARK circuit new module in the STM library, worked on support for test mode for the recursive circuit, refactored the bytes codec for forward and backward compatibility, synchronized the non-recursive circuit prototype updates to the STM library, prepared the testing plan for the IVC circuit, enhanced the witness preparation for the non-recursive prover, and added golden tests for the recursive SNARK circuit prototype.

They completed partial block range support, security parameter offset signing, and the WASM client implementation for Cardano blocks and transactions. They also continued progressing on the explorer update and the documentation of the Cardano blocks and transactions signature on the website. Additionally, they continued work on the upgrade to Cardano `10.7` and completed the DMQ node updates to `0.4.1.0` and `0.4.2.0`.

> Finally, the team completed cross-compiled Windows builds from Linux using Nix, fixed some node build failures in Hydra CI, and investigated the SNARK aggregator certification stoppage on the dev network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This week, the Mithril team completed several SNARK-related tasks. They created a new module for the recursive SNARK circuit in the STM library, added support for test mode, refactored the bytes codec for forward and backward compatibility, synchronized updates from the non-recursive circuit prototype, prepared a testing plan for the IVC circuit, enhanced witness preparation for the non-recursive prover, and added golden tests for the recursive SNARK circuit prototype.

They also completed partial block range support, security parameter offset signing, and the WASM client implementation for Cardano blocks and transactions. In addition, they continued work on the explorer update and on documenting Cardano block and transaction signatures on the website. The team also progressed the upgrade to Cardano node v.10.7 and completed DMQ node updates to `0.4.1.0` and `0.4.2.0`.

Finally, they completed cross-compiled Windows builds from Linux using Nix, fixed node build failures in Hydra CI, and investigated a SNARK aggregator certification stoppage on the dev network.
```
